# leaf_disease_detector
## INTRODUCTION:
Modern technologies have given human society the ability to produce enough food to meet the demand of more than 7 billion people. However, food security remains threatened by a number of factors including climate change (Tai et al., 2014), the decline in pollinators (Report of the Plenary of the Intergovernmental Science-PolicyPlatform on Biodiversity Ecosystem and Services on the work of its fourth session, 2016), plant diseases (Strange and Scott, 2005), and others. Plant diseases are not only a threat to food security at the global scale, but can also have disastrous consequences for smallholder farmers whose livelihoods depend on healthy crops. In the developing world, more than 80 percent of the agricultural production is generated by smallholder farmers (UNEP, 2013), and reports of yield loss of more than 50% due to pests and diseases are common (Harvey et al., 2014). Furthermore, the largest fraction of hungry people (50%) live in smallholder farming households (Sanchez and Swaminathan, 2005), making smallholder farmers a group that's particularly vulnerable to pathogen-derived disruptions in food supply.

Various efforts have been developed to prevent crop loss due to diseases. Historical approaches of widespread application of pesticides have in the past decade increasingly been supplemented by integrated pest management (IPM) approaches (Ehler, 2006). Independent of the approach, identifying a disease correctly when it first appears is a crucial step for efficient disease management. Historically, disease identification has been supported by agricultural extension organizations or other institutions, such as local plant clinics. In more recent times, such efforts have additionally been supported by providing information for disease diagnosis online, leveraging the increasing Internet penetration worldwide. Even more recently, tools based on mobile phones have proliferated, taking advantage of the historically unparalleled rapid uptake of mobile phone technology in all parts of the world (ITU, 2015).

Smartphones in particular offer very novel approaches to help identify diseases because of their computing power, high-resolution displays, and extensive built-in sets of accessories, such as advanced HD cameras. It is widely estimated that there will be between 5 and 6 billion smartphones on the globe by 2020. At the end of 2015, already 69% of the world's population had access to mobile broadband coverage, and mobile broadband penetration reached 47% in 2015, a 12-fold increase since 2007 (ITU, 2015). The combined factors of widespread smartphone penetration, HD cameras, and high performance processors in mobile devices lead to a situation where disease diagnosis based on automated image recognition, if technically feasible, can be made available at an unprecedented scale. Here, a tomato disease detection model has been created using transfer learning with Inception V3 model.

## 
